Dear Corey, Dave,

It seems that it's possible to say quite a lot about how tensor products
decompose. I'm not entirely certain whether what I've worked out is obvious or
interesting.

Let's say we have generators (n1, w1), (n2, w2). Out of these we
can build a zero box, by connecting the smaller box entirely to the larger
box, then wrapping the remaining strings of the larger box around the back.
Let's call this guy Z. (If n1 != n2, just sphericality tells us Z = 0, but
let's not worry about that for now.) I propose that we just work with the
relation that Z passes through a strand, which is certainly true if we're
looking at a quotient inside an evaluable planar algebra. (An even weaker
quotient, which sounds appealling but was harder to do calculations in, is
just that ring(Z) = \delta Z.)

So, let's see if we can compute V_(n1, w1) \otimes V_(n2, w2) / ~.

Define T_s, for s negative, to be the tangle obtained by connecting up |s|
strands between the generators. (When n1 != n2, interpret this appropriately;
we want T_{(n1+n2)/2} = Z.) When s is non-negative just separate the
two generators by s parallel strands. Note T_s is an n1+n2+2s box (I just
count the numbers of strings; nothing in this is going to care about
shadings, so there's no reason to go around dividing by two). Define T_{s,i}
to be the rotation by i clicks of T_s, for 0 <= i < n1+n2+2s.

Claim: the lowest weight vectors are in bijection with the T_{s,i}, in the
sense that you can find a basis of lowest weight vectors

    X_{s,i} = T_{s,i} + annular consequences of the T_{s' < s, j}

I certainly haven't proved this, but I have a mathematica notebook (it's in
the fusionatlas repository, /articles/quadratic/quadratic-tnagles.nb) that
happily computes the coefficients. They are simple enough looking that I'd
imagine one could just write out explicit formulas and verify that they are
low weight vectors. The point here is just that in this quotient, all these
diagrams are linear independent, so one never has to think about inner
products; you identify low weight vectors just by setting all the coefficients
of a capped element to zero. (Oh, and everything I've done so far assumes
w1=w2=1, and I haven't thought about what happens otherwise; hopefully just
yuckier formulas.)

Alternatively, you can aim for a basis of rotational eigenvectors, in which
case we get Y_{s,i} = \sum \zeta_N^ij T_{s,j} + annular consequences of lower
terms, where N = n1+n2+2s, and Y_{s,i} has rotational eigenvalue \zeta_N^i.
(That is, each rotational eigenvalue appears exactly once.)

Said another way --- in this quotient, regardless of the values of n1 and n2,
every irrep of the form V_{n,w} of ATLJ appears exactly once, just subject to
the parity condition n = n1 + n2 (mod 2).

What does this do for us, if anything? I hope a lot! Say we have two lowest
weight vectors X and Y in a planar algebra (perhaps we have just one, with
X=Y). Then this decomposition gives us a whole lot of explicit low weight
vectors (if you're lowest weight in the quotient we're working in, you're
lowest weight anywhere evaluable), which can either be zero or not. For
example, say we have X=Y, the 2n-box in an (n-1)-supertransitive planar
algebra with excess 1. Then X_{s,i} = 0 for s < -n, and X_{-n, i} = X for some
i, with all the other X_{-n, j} = 0. If you know more about the annular
multiplicities, you know more stuff vanishes.

Of course I haven't done this, but I'd be a little surprised if, for example,
Vaughan's 10 quadratic tangles equation doesn't drop out of this, assuming you
can guess the pattern in the coefficients of the X_{s,i}. Okay, we'll see. :-)

I've just arrived at Banff, and may be some combination of
exhausted/overwhelmed by local stuff all week, but I'd love to talk about 
this. Have a look at the mathematica notebook and see what you believe of it,
perhaps. I think a very plausible thing to do is to look at the explicit
formulas it can produce, and see if we can see the patterns.

best regards,
Scott